{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red83\green85\blue0;\red0\green0\blue118;\red10\green121\blue0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10180\viewh12420\viewkind0
\deftab720

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth15680\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth15680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Scripting With Textual\
\
What are Scripts?\
\

\b0 Scripts are small snippets of source code that are created outside\
of the main bundle of Textual. They are intended to be created by\
third party developers to extend the functionality of Textual in a\
easy to download and manage format. \
\

\b How do I use Scripts?
\b0 \
\
Textual comes with several pre-made scripts. Each script is written\
in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AppleScript"}}{\fldrslt AppleScript}}. The actual command to execute these scripts is the \
same as the filename. Therefore, if a script was named host.scpt, \
then the command "/host" would be used to execute it. Whether or \
not a script requires a parameter for input processing depends on \
the author of the script and what it is intended to do.\
\

\b How do I make a Script?
\b0 \
\
Textual supports two types of scripts. They are scripts that require \
input from the end user and those that do not. Both of these scripts \
share similar design.\
\
Once developed a script can be either saved in a plain format which \
can be edited by anyone or it can be compiled and saved as a run \
only file. Textual supports both of these file types. For more information \
regarding the applications needed and the methods used to save\
AppleScript files please see the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://developer.apple.com/applescript/"}}{\fldrslt Apple website}}. \
\
The return value for scripts can be any command defined that is \
native to Textual. If no command is presented, then Textual will \
send the return to the channel that is currently selected. \
\
Additionally, scripts can output multiple lines of text (or execute\
multiple commands) by using new lines.\
\

\b Where do I store scripts?
\b0 \
\
Scripts are stored in the following folder:\
\

\b [home folder] > Library > Application Scripts > com.codeux.irc.textual
\b0 \
\
This folder does not always exist and may need to be created\
manually. Textual does not have write permission to the location so\
it cannot create it itself. \
\
Any script placed within this folder will be ran outside of the Mac \
sandbox environment. \
\

\b My script did nothing. What is wrong?\
\

\b0 Textual outputs all errors that it captures to the Mac OS Console. \
This can be reached by typing "Console" into spotlight or browsing\
to Console.app under the Utilities folder. \
\

\b Is AppleScript the only supported scripting language?\
\
No, but it is the recommended one and the only one officially\
supported. 
\b0 Textual supports Python (.py), Ruby (.rb), Perl (.pl),\
Shell Executables (.sh, .bash), and PHP (.php) for scripts. \
\
These follow the same design. They are supplied the user input and \
are expected to return one or more lines of text to be processed.\
They cannot return something then continue to run. Death occurs\
after Textual has processed the first result.\
\
--------\
\

\b Example of No Input Information Required
\b0 \
\

\i Filename: example.scpt
\i0 \

\i Command: /example 
\i0 \
\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 	on textualcmd\cf2 ()\cf0 \
\'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \cf3 return\cf0  \cf4 "This message will be sent to selected channel."\cf0 \
\cf3 	end\cf0  textualcmd\
\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 --------\
\

\b Example of Input Information Required\

\b0 \

\i Filename: example.scpt\
Command: /example does this thing work?\

\i0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 	on textualcmd\cf2 (\cf0 cmd\cf2 )\cf0 \
\'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \cf3 return\cf0  cmd\
\cf3 	end\cf0  textualcmd\
\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 This example takes in the "does this thing work?" input from the user \
and returns it right back to them. The 
\f1 textualcmd
\f0  method only accepts \
one parameter and it is the input information itself.\cell \lastrow\row
}